Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

Authors:
Marco Fruscione
Gianluca Severi
Sandro Ubbiali
Date of issue Revision
29/09/2025 – rev. V

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

CQO, Integration Project and Regulatory Director – EBIT s.r.l
R&D Director – EBIT s.r.l.
Planning & Product Manager – EBIT s.r.l.

Change history
Updated coding of referenced procedures after migration to Arcadoc.
Sections 1 and 5.1: detailed reference to IEC 81001-5-1.
General revision for further specification of elementary activities as per Agile
development methodology.
Correction of typos and text rephrasing to improve document readability.

29/11/2024 – rev. U

Added references to POL000022 and IPR000021 in sections 2 and 5.1
Updated section 5.2.1 with detailed list of Design Input requirements
Updated section 5.2.2 with detailed list of the items included in the Project
Development Plan document
Revision of Annex A:
• Section 3.4 – specification of the verification activities executed on the
software release Setup package at the Deploy stage
• Section 3.4 – specification of the software delivery and installation
methods
• section 3.5 – typo correction, added Translations for Service Pack

28/06/2024 – rev. T

Updated section 5.2.3.7 and 5.2.3.14 related to the Risk Management Activities in
compliance with the new Risk Management Plan defined in MDR transition
Updated section 5.2.5 and 5.2.6 related to Test Plan definition and Test Case
specification in compliance with MDR transition

24/04/2024 – rev. S

General revision (also of related Annex A) for MDR transition and introduction of
Agile methodology

30/11/2023 – rev. R

Revision of activities of section 5.2.8
Updated section 5.2.8.5 – Software Verification and Validation, with more detail
on test methods, acceptance criteria and expected results

31/03/2023 – rev. Q

Updated section 5.2.3 with more details on the revision process of Product
Requirement during Intermediate Planning Review
Updated section 5.2.8 – Software Verification and Validation, with addition of
activity 5.2.8.5 related to the definition of the validation criteria of the Product
Requirement

30/06/2022 – rev. P

Updated 5.2.3.7 and 5.2.3.14 with more details on responsibility of the Risk
Management Activities

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

1/24

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

Updated 5.2.11.4: Revision of the OTS Software verification and validation
process
Revision of Annex A
28/02/2020 – rev. N

Updated 5.2.8.2 in Software Test plan Definition.
Updated 5.2.9 Software Release Section.

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

Reference to the Microsoft Azure DevOps (was Team Foundation Server).
30/04/2019 – rev. M

Annex A Revision on OTS Software Management.
Minor revision to introduce the Product Manager function.

30/11/2018 – rev. L

Annex A Revision:
Introduction and description of the User Story Concept and management in TFS.
Update description of product non-conformity management through TFS.

20/06/2018 – rev. H

5.2.4.3, 5.2.5.1, 5.2.11.2 and 5.2.11.8: Added specific activities in compliance to
GDPR EU Rules 679/2016, in effect from 25.05.2018.
Introduction of the usability engineering process activities according to IEC623661.

31/10/2017 – rev. G

5.2.7.4 – Explicit reference to impact analysis in the Hotfix production process.

30/01/2017 – rev. F

5.2.11 - OTS Software – Maintenance and Integration process revised.

30/09/2016 – rev. E

Modified section 2 – References, eliminate reference not more valid to ESAOTE.
Annex A – English Translation

20/07/2015 – rev. D

Modified section 5.2.3.16 – Clearly specified the risk assessment process in the
phase of a change request of an existing device (new release input specification
process).

11/11/2014 – rev. C

New version of Annex A of this document.

03/10/2013 – rev. B

Reference to the Microsoft TFS (Team Foundation Server) and introduction of the
Annex A. Since April 2013 the User Product Requirements are electronically
registered and listed on TFS.

19/02/2013 – rev. A

First issue

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

2/24

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

Content

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

1.
2.
3.

Scope ............................................................................................................................. 4
References ...................................................................................................................... 4
Terms and Definitions ...................................................................................................... 5
3.1.
Definitions ................................................................................................................. 5
4.
Roles and Responsibilities................................................................................................. 6
5.
Software development ..................................................................................................... 6
5.1.
Overview................................................................................................................... 6
5.2.
The Software Development Lifecycle ........................................................................... 9
5.2.1.
Concept Development & Product Requirement Definition ....................................... 9
5.2.2.
Project Initiation and Management ..................................................................... 10
5.2.3.
Software Requirements Development ................................................................. 11
5.2.4.
Software Unit Implementation and Verification .................................................... 15
5.2.5.
Software Test Plan Definition ............................................................................. 15
5.2.6.
Software Integration and Software System integration testing .............................. 17
5.2.7.
Problem Resolution Process ................................................................................ 18
5.2.8.
Software Verification and Validation .................................................................... 19
5.2.9.
Software Release ............................................................................................... 20
5.2.10. Post-Launch Software Releases, Change Management ......................................... 21
5.2.11. Externally-Sourced Software Management .......................................................... 22

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

3/24

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

1. Scope
Scope of this document is to specify in detail the software development life-cycle model used in
EBIT, in application of the standard operating procedure QPR000149 "Development and Design" of
EBIT QMS (Quality Management System), for the development and life-cycle management of the
SUITESTENSA Software and in compliance with:
- IEC 62304:2015-Ed1.1 - Medical Device Software – Software life-cycle process
- IEC 81001-5-1:2021 - Health software and health IT systems safety, effectiveness and
security - Part 5-1: Security - Activities in the product life cycle
- IEC 82304-1:2016 - Health software - Part 1: General requirements for product safety
- IEC 62366-1:2015+AMD1:2020 - Application of usability engineering processes to medical
devices.
This standard procedure is applicable to new projects starting from and including the SUITESTENSA
platform project. The application of the IEC 62366-1 is in application of Annex C, for those modules
of SUITESTENSA platform designed and released before the introduction of IEC 62366-1.
In the Annex A is described the operative process that should be followed when using the software
suite Microsoft Azure DevOps (formerly, Team Foundation Server) in order to electronically register
and manage the software life- cycle development and documentation.

2. References
Reference

Title

QMS

Quality Management System EBIT

QPR

Quality Operating Procedure of EBIT QMS

QOI

Quality Operating Instructions of EBIT QMS

QPR000147

Product requirements definition and planning

QPR000149

Design and Development

QPR000150

Procurement

POL000022

Policy for secure software development (EBIT ISMS)

IPR000021

Secure Software Development Requirements Management
(EBIT ISMS)

QOI000136

Risk Management Process

RMP-SUITESTENSA

Risk Management Plan

IEC
62304:2006+AMD1:2015

Medical Device Software – Software life-cycle process

IEC 82304-1:2016

Health software - Part 1: General requirements for
product safety

IEC 62366-1:2015
+AMD1:2020

Medical devices - Part 1: Application of usability
engineering to medical devices

ISO 14971:2019+A11:2021

Application of Risk Management to Medical devices

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

4/24

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

IEC 81001-5-1:2021

Health software and health
effectiveness and security

IT

systems

safety,

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

3. Terms and Definitions
CR
Change Request (request to change a product requirement of an existing device)
DA
Diary of Activities
DRC Head of Sales department
DT
Technical Description
INT
Integration department
ISMS Information Security Management System
PdP
Project Development Plan
PNPM Proposal of New Product/Module
PP
Planning & Product Management
PR
Planning Review
QMS EBIT Quality Management System
R&D Research and Development
RADR Risk Analysis Design Review document
RAV Risk Analysis Verification document
RQ
Product Requirement
SI
Input Specifications – Software Technical Specification Document
SPV
Post-Sales department (includes Technical Assistance, Help Desk)
SP
Sprint Planning
SR
Sprint Review
STM Software Test Manager
SW
Software
TP
Test Plan
TR
Test Report
TFS
Microsoft Azure DevOps suite (previously Team Foundation Server)
UEF Usability Engineering File
USD Usability Specification Document

3.1. Definitions
The following definitions are taken from the IEC 62366 International Standard:
Primary Operating Function
Usability
Usability Engineering
LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

Function that involves user interaction that is either
frequently used or related to the safety of a medical device.
Characteristic of the operator equipment interface that
establishes effectiveness, efficiency, ease of user learning
and user satisfaction.
Application of knowledge about human behaviour, abilities,
limitations, and other characteristics related to the design of
5/24

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

Usability Engineering File

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

Use Error
Use Scenario

tools, devices, systems, tasks, jobs, and environments to
achieve adequate usability.
Set of records and other documents that are produced by
the usability engineering process.
Act or omission of an act that results in a different response
than intended or expected.
Specified sequence of events and tasks as performed by a
specified operator in a specified environment.

4. Roles and Responsibilities
Role
Planning &
Product Manager

R&D Manager

Software
Development
Project Manager
Software Test
Manager

Initials Responsibility
PP
- create the concepts for new products to be developed
- produce a first level set of product and business user
requirements (New Product Requirements) as well as of Change
Requests (new requirements) on the existing device
- perform the product Validation
- call and lead the Inception meeting (initial Planning Review)
- with R&D, review and approve the final Planning Review meeting
minutes prior to product release
R&D
- review and approve the Product Requirements
- appoint a SW Development Project Manager to the project, with
a development team
- approve and deliver the SW Project Development Plan
- with PP, review and approve the Sprint Planning and Sprint
Review meeting minutes
- Approve the Software System Test Plan
RdP
- Approve the Software Input Specification documents
- Manage the Sprint Planning and Sprint Review meeting minutes
STM

- Deliver the Software System Test Plan
- Manage the Test Plan

5. Software development
5.1. Overview
Software development is performed according to:
- the Company’s QMS documentation, in which are described the processes in place to manage
the various life cycle activities for product development, design control, and risk
management. Dedicated QMS operating procedures describe the product and software
development processes, from the time a new device or a new set of device features are
formally defined through the release of the product to the market, including provisions for
changes and maintenance planning for each device and for the software within each device.
LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

6/24

-

-

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

-

-

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

the guidelines and the operating methods for the fulfilment of the requirements and criteria
for secure software development, expressed in the documents POL000022 and IPR000021
part of the Company’s ISMS.
the IEC 62304 standard, that is intended to provide a framework of the whole life-cycle
(processes, activities and task) necessary to safe design and maintenance processes of
software medical devices.
the IEC 82304 standard, that is intended to provide a framework of the whole life-cycle
(processes, activities and task) necessary to cover and manage requirements for the safety
and security of health software products.
IEC 81001-5-1 standard, that is intended to define the life-cycle requirements for the
development and maintenance of health software, with a specific focus on cybersecurity. It
establishes a structured set of processes, activities, and tasks to ensure secure software
development, maintenance, and risk management, complementing standards IEC 62304 and
IEC 82304. The standard aims to increase the cybersecurity of health software by embedding
security practices throughout the software life cycle, and is applicable to both medical device
software and other health-related software products.

Risk analysis activities are part of the development process and are carried out over the duration of
the project plan, following the stage defined in the Risk Management Plan, and consistently with the
development activities and in order for being able to properly implement software countermeasures
to hazards that may be identified.
Being SUITESTENSA a software medical device, risk identification is based on the product
requirements of the software version to which the Risk Analysis applies
An agile software development approach is adopted for the management of the software
development life-cycle. Such iterative, incremental and adaptive methodology is depicted in the
figure below and its key elements are discussed in the table below.

Item

Description

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

Participants
7/24

Sprint

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

Inception

Product Backlog

Sprint Backlog
Backlog
Prioritization

Requirement
Analysis

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

One full iteration of software development: a set period of
time (usually two weeks) during which specific work
(Sprint Backlog) has to be completed and made ready for
review.
A structured meeting (initial Planning Review) conducted
at the beginning of the development project. It serves to
align stakeholders on the product vision, clarify objectives,
define the scope and delivery strategy, and assess
potential risks: the goal of the meeting is to establish the
scope and timeline for the release of the target software
version.

Scrum Team

Through collaborative sessions, the development team and
key stakeholders establish a shared understanding of
priorities, constraints, and success criteria. This early
alignment ensures that the project starts with a clear
direction and a validated foundation for iterative
development, i.e. the Product Backlog is defined in its
initial version (1.0).
List of all the CRs and RQs included as of the Inception
meeting (kick-off) and potentially updated, redefined and
reviewed following Delivery Updates sessions and/or due
to other inputs.
Subset of the Product Backlog items that the components
of the Scrum Team are assigned to develop within the
scope of the ongoing Sprint.
The process of ordering Product Backlog items based on
their value and priority, in order to ensure that the team
focuses on delivering the most impactful features first.
Prioritization is typically revisited at regular intervals (e.g.
during Sprint Planning sessions) to reflect changing
priorities, evolving goals and feedbacks.
Session for in-depth analysis of those RQs and CRs that
need further analysis and/or clarification functional to their
development, before the Sprint Planning execution.

Delivery Updates

Regular session for evaluating and discussing the external
feedbacks collected on the use of the software device.

Scrum Team

Cross-functional group of professionals accountable for the
development of the Sprint Backlog within the scope of the
ongoing Sprint.
Bi-weekly meeting for:

Sprint Planning
(SP)

-

PP
SPV
INT
R&D
DRC

N.A.

N.A.
PP

PP
SPV
INT
R&D
PP
SPV
INT
PP
R&D
PP
R&D

selecting the RQs and CRs that compose the Sprint
Backlog;

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

8/24

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

-

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

designating the RQs and CRs that need further
clarification and will be developed in future Sprints.

Sprint Review
(SR)

Bi-weekly project progress meeting.

Daily Scrum

Brief daily communication and status-check meeting for
the Scrum Team members working on the ongoing Sprint.

PP
R&D
Scrum Team

5.2. The Software Development Lifecycle
5.2.1.

Concept Development & Product Requirement Definition

According to QMS procedure for Product Concept and Planning (QPR000147), the Product Manager
group has the responsibility for creating the concepts for any new product to be developed and for
proposing it to EBIT management. It is mandatory to include in the "New Product Proposal"
document a first level set of product and business requirements. It includes also provisions for
changes and maintenance planning for each device and the software requirements within each
device for the product to be developed (the Product Requirements – RQ Document), including:
- Intended Use and Intended User base and Intended Use environment
- Basic Technical Specifications.
- Needed approvals, possible voluntary marking and product classification
- Compatibility and relationship with other products
- Costs and production volume targets
- Product validation and market test activities
- Required investments (project budget)
- Project time Schedule
During Product Requirement Specification it is required to address the definition of the Usability
Specification Document (USD), to be used in the Usability Engineering Process activities. USD
Document should include at least the application specifications and the frequently used functions of
the medical device. The USD shall include:
- intended medical indication
- intended patient population
- intended part of the body or type of tissue applied to or interact with
- intended operator profile
- intended conditions of use
- operating principle
The Primary Operating Functions shall include:
- frequently used functions
- functions related to safety
The Design Input requirements of the device under development include the following items:
• user product-specific requirements, which identify the User Need requirements and are used
to drive downstream software requirements development;

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

9/24

•
•

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

•

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

labelling requirements, which are registered in Azure DevOps by means of a specific
“Requirement” in order to be appropriately documented as design inputs and included in the
verification process;
applicable regulatory requirements, which are identified and recorded in the Project
Development Plan document and are regularly evaluated, discussed and reviewed during
project progress meetings;
certain business requirements that influence the product’s strategic positioning and market
readiness, which are considered during the development of the Design and Development
Plan and may indirectly inform design input activities.

Since April 2013 the User Product Requirements are electronically registered and listed on the
Microsoft Azure DevOps (previously named Team Foundation Server) – cfr. Annex A.
EBIT uses Microsoft Azure DevOps for the management of the SUITESTENSA Software development
life-cycle documentation.
Microsoft Azure DevOps is an ALM (Application Life-cycle Management) Software Suite.
The User Product Requirements and Software Specification Requirements are electronically
registered and listed in Microsoft Azure DevOps which provides interactive tools and report
capabilities to:
1. list the open requirement for a specific release version
2. assess the status of each product requirement, both in term of analysis & verification.
3. give traceability of the specific product requirements with relation to the task assigned in the
software development plan and the software developer responsible for the task.
4. register the output of the verification and validation phase on the specific requirement.
The approval of the Product Requirements Backlog in its initial version (1.0) related to a specific
release version takes place within the context of the Inception meeting (initial Planning Review), in
presence of PP, R&D, SPV, INT and Sales Managers.
The R&D manager is required to review the Product Requirements.
Upon approval of the development, a SW Development Project Manager is appointed to the project
and the development team is structured into dedicated working groups, whose organization and
composition are formally defined during the Inception meeting (initial Planning Review).

5.2.2.

Project Initiation and Management

According to the procedure for Design Control (QPR000149), design and product development are
managed through a Project Development Plan (PdP) that identifies the activities and responsibilities
for the management of the following items:
1. identification of the project objectives and expected product requirements and of the
sustainability and risk elements underlying the project;
2. definition and identification of the elements of technological innovation, if any, and, where
applicable, definition of the related system software architecture;
3. identification of the standards and mandatory regulatory requirements with which the
development project and the product to be released shall comply;
4. identification of development services and tools;
5. identification of the Risk Management Plan (cfr. QOI000136);
6. identification of the Test Plan;
7. identification of the plan for product management and maintenance activities;
LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

10/24

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

8. organisation of work and assignment of activities and responsibilities;
9. identification of the methods for verifying the progress of the plan;
10. definition of the time development plan for the project and the related activities.
The activities included in the PdP, also referred to as Software Development Plan, are managed
through the Microsoft Azure DevOps software suite. From the activities defined in the suite, detailed
project plans and responsibilities are developed in order to manage the document specification
creation, documentation development, verification testing activities that demonstrate compliance of
the design to its Design Input requirements.
The software Test and Verification Processes and the Risk Management Process are delivered in
compliance to the Test Plan and Risk Management Plan documents, that define:
- the action to be performed,
- the methodology and guideline to be followed, and
- the timeline that should be respected during the software development plan.
Activities and specifications are assigned to the team members. In order to help control development
activities, Microsoft Azure DevOps Suite is used as a project management tool as the project team’s
bug-tracking system, as well as the means by which project task activities are managed.

5.2.3.

Software Requirements Development

Product Requirements are regarded as system input requirements (Design Input) for the
development team.
The Software Requirement Specification process consists in Requirement Analysis sessions and/or
dedicated meetings over the duration of the Sprint, during which the Product Requirements are
discussed so as to clearly identify the User Need requirements. The goal of such process, referred
to as “Definition of Ready”, is to ensure that Product Requirements reach a “Ready” status, suitable
for subsequent development activities.
As soon as an architecture is identified for the device to be developed, the system input requirements
are further specified in SW Technical Specification Documents that describe the various subsystems.
Table 1 summarizes the task to be accomplished during this phase for the design and development
of a new system. The following process and its approval phases are registered in the Microsoft Azure
DevOps Suite.

5.2.3.1

5.2.3.2
5.2.3.3
5.2.3.4

Table 1 - Software requirements of a new system
Product Requirements are reviewed and accepted by the SW Project Manager
and the team.
The review activity includes identification of User Need requirements.
The Product Backlog in its initial version (1.0) includes Product Requirements
that have reached a “Ready” status.
The development team identifies a system architecture to meet the design
input.
The software system is divided into items.
The main software items are identified to fit the system architecture.

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

11/24

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

5.2.3.5

5.2.3.6
5.2.3.7

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

A number of SW Technical Specification Documents to cover the User Need
requirements is identified, when necessary.
Starting from the Primary Operating Functions, the Usability Specification shall
be extended to describe:
- use scenarios related to the Primary Operating Functions (frequent and
reasonably foreseeable worst-case use scenarios);
- operator equipment interface requirements for Primary Operating
Functions, including those to mitigate risk;
- requirements for determining whether Primary Operating Functions are
easily recognizable by the operator, if applicable.
A Technical Description document (ADD - Architectural Design Document)
reports the system architecture, approved by the RdP and/or R&D Manager.
Risk Management activities are initiated for the device under development
during this phase of the software requirement specification. Risk Management
activities are planned to remove or reduce as far as possible the risks
associated with:
- the use of the device;
- the possible negative interactions between software and the IT
environment within which it operates and interacts (where applicable)
in terms of cybersecurity.
Risk Management activities and Risk Analysis, as defined in the Risk
Management Plan, shall include:
a) Identification of possible safety and security risks arising from the use
of the medical device. Identification of hazards and hazardous
situations shall be performed as early as possible in the design and
development process, in order to facilitate risk control, and shall
continue throughout the entire lifecycle of the product.
Being SUITESTENSA a software medical device, risk identification is
based on the product requirements of the software version to which
the Risk Analysis applies and is performed according to:
- questions in UNI ISO/TR 24971:2020 Annex A, for the evaluation
of safety risks;
- IEC/TR 80001-2-2:2012 and, where applicable, IEC/TR 80002-1
with particular reference to Annex B, for the evaluation of security
risks.
b) Assessment of the probability and severity of the risk, and the
resulting acceptability level.
c) Identification of countermeasures – that could be software risk
mitigation measures, warning and instructions within IFU and within
Operative Instruction and Quality Operating Procedure of the EBIT
QMS - to be applied for risk mitigation.
Software design measures to control the risk are identified by R&D, to be part
of SW Technical Specification Documents (SI) when necessary.

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

12/24

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

Risk Management activities shall specifically include identification of Hazards
and Hazardous Situations related to Usability as per the Risk Management
Process, starting from the Usability Specification Document and the frequently
used operating functions. Responsible of the Risk Management Activities
related to Usability is PP. Software design measures to control the risk are
identified by R&D department, to be part of SW Technical Specification
Documents (SI) when necessary.
The results of risk identification analysis mentioned above are recorded and
documented in the Risk Management Summary document (RMSSUITESTENSA).
Similarly to the product requirements definition stage, which follows the
aforementioned iterative, incremental and adaptive Agile methodology, also
the Risk Management Plan follows an iterative approach.
During the planning and design phase, and in compliance with the Agile
methodology principle, the Risk Management Summary document (RMSSUITESTENSA) can be updated and/or modified if new risk elements
emerge during the definition of the software detailed architecture and/or if
new design elements and requirement are introduced.
5.2.3.8
5.2.3.9
5.2.3.10
5.2.3.10.1

The software development team identifies a system software architecture to
meet the system software requirements. System software Items are identified
including Third-Party and OTS Software.
In the Technical Description document (ADD - Architectural Design
Document), Software Items are classified based on safety, according to IEC
62304 and on the outcomes of the Risk Analysis.
Technical Description document (ADD – System Software Architecture
document) reports the system software architecture and is approved by the
RdP and/or R&D Manager.
During project progress meetings (SR):
• the list of Product Requirements may be revised based on the current
status of the release plan, as well as in the case where new RQs, not
originally planned, have to be incorporated in the release plan with
higher priority. Any changes to the list of Product Requirements are
formalized through subsequent versions of the Product Backlog,
ensuring traceability and consistency with the updated development
scope;
• applicable regulatory requirements are evaluated, discussed and
reviewed to ensure ongoing compliance and alignment with project
objectives.
All relevant evidence related to these activities is recorded within the Azure
DevOps system, where each Sprint is managed as a structured container
encompassing work items and their associated workflows and
interdependencies.

Table 2 summarizes the tasks to be accomplished during this phase for the design and development
of changes to software of an existing device.
LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

13/24

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

5.2.3.11

5.2.3.12
5.2.3.13
5.2.3.14

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

Table 2 - Software requirements of changes to an existing device
The Product Requirements for the release (RQ and CR) are reviewed and
accepted by the SW Development Project Manager (RdP) and the team.
USD Document should be updated if any modification should occur on existing
requirement on:
- intended medical indication;
- intended patient population;
- intended part of the body or type of tissue applied to or interact with;
- intended operator profile;
- intended conditions of use;
- operating principle.
In the case of new Primary Operating Functions, USD shall include:
- frequently used functions;
- functions related to safety.
Revision includes also compatibility with the current system architecture and
identification of the parts of the system affected and involved in the new
requirements.
New System Input Specifications (SI) documents or changes to existing SI are
identified.
Risk Management activities are initiated in case of changes to an existing
device, following the same process described earlier in 5.2.3.7
As defined in the Risk Management Plan, if new software design measures to
control the risk are added as results of the Risk Analysis, they have to be
verified in the Test Case Session on risk control measures.
In the case that no design measures to control the risk have to be added due
to changes to an existing device, this should also be clearly defined and stated
within the context of the relevant SP/SR meeting and in the final RADR
document (Risk Analysis Design Review) document, as defined in the Risk
Management Plan.

5.2.3.15
5.2.3.16
5.2.3.17

SW Technical Specification Documents, when deemed necessary, are drafted,
approved by RdP.
The system software architecture and the software items, including safety
classification, are reviewed to confirm applicability of the new requirements or
to identify and classify new items in the architecture.
During project progress meetings (SR):
• the list of Product Requirements may be revised based on the current
status of the release plan, as well as in the case where new RQs, not
originally planned, have to be incorporated in the release plan with
higher priority. Any changes to the list of Product Requirements are
formalized through subsequent versions of the Product Backlog,
ensuring traceability and consistency with the updated development
scope;
• applicable regulatory requirements are evaluated, discussed and
reviewed to ensure ongoing compliance and alignment with project
objectives.

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

14/24

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

Table 2 - Software requirements of changes to an existing device
All relevant evidence related to these activities is recorded within the Azure
DevOps system, where each Sprint is managed as a structured container
encompassing work items and their associated workflows and
interdependencies.

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

5.2.4.
5.2.4.1
5.2.4.2
5.2.4.3

5.2.4.4

5.2.4.5

5.2.4.6

Software Unit Implementation and Verification

Table 3 - Software/Firmware Unit Implementation and Verification
Once the software architecture has been reviewed and approved, the software
unit and module development activities are assigned to the Scrum Team
members according to the software architecture specifications.
Software is developed and verified at the unit level directly by the software
development engineer as specified in Test Plan.
Programming Languages and development tools (including software
configuration management programs) are identified and documented.
Development Environment must be hosted in logical segregated network and
must not be available on the Internet.
Software Item Test (unit test) is performed by the software developer to
verify the requirement implementation against its Specifications.
Test Cases are specified for those work items (RQs/CRs) that have reached
the "Definition of Done": in accordance with Agile methodology, this status
indicates that all development activities related to the work item have been
completed. Upon reaching this status, two activities are executed:
• specification of Test Cases by the software developer;
• execution of Test Cases (unit testing activities) by the software
developer.
To bring efficiency to the software development process, simulators or
emulators might be used for unit testing that reproduce the device’s software
environment. This allows for detailed testing of all input and output conditions
at the unit and module level. Test cases are specified within the simulation
environment to thoroughly test each software unit and module.
Test cases are specified by the developers to ensure traceability to software
requirements, clarity of expected outcomes and repeatability of test
procedures. Each test case shall target specific functional or non-functional
aspects of the software, contributing to the overall demonstration of product
quality and reliability.
Software Items Verification activities include:
- proper event sequence;
- data flow;
- fault handling;
- initialization of variables;
- memory management;
- boundary conditions;
- implementation of risk control measures.

5.2.5.

Software Test Plan Definition
Table 4 - Software System Test Plan

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

15/24

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

5.2.5.1

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

In the Project Development Plan, the Software Test Manager creates the Test
Plan as a series of item, software item integration and system-level test
cases/checklists.
In alignment with the Agile methodology, the Test Plan is progressively defined
over time: during each Sprint, the Testing team performs pre-testing activities
on Test Cases (TCs) that have reached the “Ready” state. These TCs are
incrementally included in the Test Plan, which is therefore managed as an
evolving artifact.
The execution of these tests is recorded within the Azure DevOps system,
ensuring full traceability of the testing activities and their alignment with the
development workflow.
Test cases with execution outcome “PASSED” in previous sessions are not reexecuted in subsequent testing sessions, unless they are linked to unresolved
issues, bug-related work items or identified regression risks.
The Test Plan includes, where appropriate for software releases of devices
already in the market, a regression testing section to assure that modules not
subjected to change requests or new requirement still work properly and that
no unintended side effects have been introduced to that modules by the
changes made to the device’s software.
The plan definition of Verification and Validation Tests of CR/RQs under
development within a Sprint (Sprint Backlog) is carried out over the duration
of the Sprint itself: relevant Test Case objects related to Sprint Backlog are
defined on the Microsoft Azure DevOps system.
Verification and Validation Tests are generally executed subsequent to project
progress meetings (SP/SR), after which the Verification team (R&D) and the
Validation team (PP) coordinate to align on the testing activities planned for
the Sprint.
Where applicable, the Validation team (PP) proceeds with the execution of
validation tests upon completion and positive outcome of an initial round of
verification tests executed by the Verification team (R&D). This approach
ensures that testing activities efforts are based on a stable and verified
software baseline.
Test Environment must be hosted in logical segregated network and must not
available on the Internet.
The Test Plan shall include the plan of the software risk mitigation control
measure defined for the version under test, and related to safety, security and
usability of the device, as defined in the Risk Management Plan.
The Test Plan may also include specific activities related to security measures,
in order to identify vulnerabilities through:
- Vulnerability Assessment/Penetration Tests;
- Source Code Review activities.
As defined in document IPR000021, which is part of EBIT ISMS implemented
in compliance with ISO/IEC 27001:2022, periodic Vulnerability Assessments

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

16/24

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

and Penetration Tests are conducted on released product versions to detect
emerging threats in deployed software components.
In parallel, Code Review activities -supported by off-the-shelf (OTS) tools- are
regularly performed during development to identify security vulnerabilities,
quality issues, and deviations from secure coding standards through static
code analysis. These reviews are periodically assessed by the development
team and their outcomes inform corrective actions across both new
development and maintenance cycles.
All findings related to the activities described above contribute to the
continuous update of risk analysis documentation, in alignment with the
provisions of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) document.
A Software Test Plan document identifies the procedures and criteria for test
execution and acceptance of test results.
Test Plans are issued and approved before the tests start.
The software system test plan (with all the checklists) is approved by R&D or
RdP.
Software Verification Checklists are developed for each major software
function that define the software function’s requirements. These Software
Verification Checklists are then used to develop test cases and acceptance
criteria.
Test specification (checklists) are developed from System Input Specifications
and Product Requirement definition. These checklists may include individual
test cases with acceptance criteria defined for each test case.

5.2.5.2
5.2.5.3
5.2.5.4

5.2.5.5

Test specifications for new modules/features: this task is assigned to the
module manager (Dev), possibly supported by the Test Team.
Test specifications for release-specific requirements and issues: this activity is
performed by the module manager (Dev) and, if necessary, by the project
manager (RdP).

5.2.6.
5.2.6.1

5.2.6.2

5.2.6.3

Software Integration and Software System integration testing
Table 5 - Software Integration and integration testing
From Project Development Plan, the Software Test Manager creates the Test
Plan as a series of item, software item integration and system-level test
cases/checklists.
The Test Plan includes, where appropriate for software releases of devices
already in the market, a regression testing section to assure that modules not
subjected to change requests or new requirement still work properly and that
no unintended side effects have been introduced to that modules by the
changes made to the device’s software.
Software integration tests are performed by a group dedicated to this
function within the software development department.
Software Integration test address whether the integrated items perform as
specified in the Input Specification documents.
Software Integration Test Reports are approved by the Software team
manager and delivered to RdP.

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

17/24

5.2.6.4

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

5.2.6.6

5.2.6.7

5.2.7.3
5.2.7.4

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

Software System Test Report is issued and approved by RdP to document the
test result.
Approval includes verification that:
- Test Methodology is correct;
- Test procedure trace to Software System Requirements;
- all applicable Software System Requirements have been verified.
- Test results meet the pass/fail criteria.

5.2.7.

5.2.7.2

rev. V

Full integration testing and software system testing are combined in a
Software System Testing set of activities.
Software System Verification Tests are performed by the Software
System Test Group. This group performs verification testing to assess that the
system software requirements, developed to cover the User Needs, have been
met. Software System Verification Tests may include the following:
• Integrated tests/Flow tests specification: these tests are designed to
verify interaction procedures, intended as data and control flows
between individual software modules.
• Software Module verification sessions: they shall be conducted in
accordance with formal test specifications and at the verification
milestones defined in the project plan. They consist of parallel
execution of test suites performed by a dedicated test team.
• Integrated Verification sessions: these sessions support the
qualification of candidate software builds for both preliminary and final
product releases, ensuring compliance with functional and regulatory
requirements.
A “Risk” Analysis Verification (RAV) Checklist is drafted at the completion of
the Risk Analysis and during the analysis and design of software risk mitigation
measures.
RAV is issued to assess that the measures to control the risk involving software
have been implemented correctly, as defined in the Risk Management Plan.
The RAV is updated with changes made to the Risk Management documents.

5.2.6.5

5.2.7.1

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

Problem Resolution Process
Table 6 - Problem Resolution Process
Problems are identified and tracked using the Azure DevOps tool (cfr. Annex
A – Issue definition).
Anomalies detected in software during the test phases or reported by field
service are investigated for reproducibility and to identify the causes.
The problems are also evaluated for relevance to the safety and effectiveness
of the system and classified accordingly.
All bugs discovered during verification of measure taken to reduce a risk (Risk
Analysis Checklist), according to the risk management documentation, are set
to "Critical" severity.
The implementation of the solution (HotFix) to correct each bug is verified.
The verification is carried out by the bug Reporter or an independent person.
In the case the HF is not specifically related to a single installation and a
Service Pack is not planned (see Annex A), the impact analysis on the module
affected by the HF is mandatory and regression test is performed, if needed.

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

18/24

5.2.8.
5.2.8.1

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

5.2.8.2

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

Software Verification and Validation
Table 7 - Software Validation
Software is validated at the system level. At the end of the verification phase,
the system is delivered to the PP group for Validation.
PP, responsible for Validation activities, operates independently from the
design team.
PP shall prepare and maintain a Validation Plan. The Validation Plan defines
the structured approach to validation activities, ensuring that the medical
device consistently meets its intended use, safety and performance
requirements throughout its lifecycle, in compliance with MDR (EU) 2017/745.
It outlines the scope, methods, responsibilities, and acceptance criteria for
validation, supporting regulatory conformity and patient safety.
Validation is performed with regards to the Input User Requirement Document
and includes, as defined in the following 5.2.8.5, the verification of:
- the usability of the requirement;
- the performance of the requirement;
- the functionality of the requirement.
The specific list of Input User Requirements to be validated is defined
following the criteria defined in 5.2.8.4 hereinafter.
PP shall also prepare and maintain a Usability Evaluation Plan specifying:
- the methods and acceptance criteria for validation of the Usability of
the Primary Operating Functions based on the Usability Specification;
- the kind of environment where the validation is performed;
- the specific user training needs that should be addressed with respect
to the device performance.
The Usability Evaluation Plan is part of the Validation Plan of the product.

5.2.8.3

5.2.8.4

According to Product Concept and Planning procedure (QPR000147), two
phases could be identified:
- product validation: demonstration of conformance to product
requirements and user needs;
- market test (optional): to gauge market acceptance and to confirm
market penetration rates, especially in consideration of the product’s
innovations and applications.
During Requirement Analysis sessions and/or within the context of the
Inception (initial Planning Review) and the project progress meetings (SR/SP)
assessing the status of development and possibly update of the List of Product
Requirements, the specific list of Input User Requirements to be validated is
defined. Those requirements are validated and verified with a registration on
the Azure DevOps system.

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

19/24

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

The general criteria to determine whether an Input User Requirement may not
be subjected to validation are the following:
• the requirement is related to a technical and or architectural back-end
functionality;
• the requirement has no direct impact on the User Interface;
• the requirement is classified as a Change Request to an existing
functionality and has no relevant impact on the User Experience and
User Interface. This criterion could be applied also to new
Requirements;
• the requirement is related to integration process (back-end
requirements).
In more general terms, a requirement may not be subjected to validation in
those cases where, due to the nature of the requirement itself, there is no
need for the PP validation process, since the following topics are already
verified and tested in the Verification Phase defined in 5.2.6:
- the usability of the requirement;
- the performance of the requirement;
- the functionality of the requirement.
Validation is performed with regards to the Input User Requirement Document
and includes verification of:
- the usability of the requirement;
- performance;
- functionality.

5.2.8.5

For each of them, PP creates one (or more) Validation Test Case object(s) on
the Azure DevOps system. Each Test Case object provides a tab ”Steps” where
PP defines test methods, acceptance criteria and expected results of the
validation to be performed. Such structured information aims to define proper
implementing rules for running the Validation Test Cases in order to assess
the Usability, the Performance and the Functionality of each requirement.

5.2.9.
5.2.9.1

5.2.9.2

Software Release
Table 8 - Software Release
At the final Planning Review prior to release (for both a new device software
and a change to an existing device) the following activities are performed:
- residual anomalies are identified and evaluated to ensure that they
don’t contribute to an unacceptable risk;
- verification that all the software risk reduction measures have been
successfully tested;
- verification that no Critical bug has been left unresolved.
The registration of the validation test case on the Azure DevOps system is
reviewed within the context of the final Planning Review formalizing the
release. Acceptance and release of this validation test case is required for
device release.

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

20/24

5.2.9.3

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

The version of the software that is being released is documented through the
formal filing of source codes, executable code, archive documentation to
identify the components of the release and the references for specifications
and test plan.
The Product Release Note shall contain a clear evidence of the following:
- list of all the released functionalities;
- for specific functionalities, released only for testing purpose with thirdparty software, a clear indication must be specified. As soon as the
integration test with third-parties is completed, the Integration Project
Release Note, already part of the documentation produced, is officially
part of the Product Release Note.
During the final Planning Review prior to software release, the checklist of the
compliance to IEC 62304, 81001-5-1 and 82304 shall be verified.
The responsibility of the checklist is of R&D, who appoints the contribution to:
- RdP – Software Development Phase;
- Test Plan Manager;
- PP – Verification and Validation.
The final Planning Review meeting minutes document is approved by the R&D
manager and the PP manager.
The meeting formalizes the verification of successful outcomes from
verification and validation testing, as well as the completeness of the
documentation required for product release. Specifically, the following items
are reviewed:
• the results and conclusions of the Validation Report (VRSUITESTENSA);
• the results and conclusions of the Risk Management Report (RMRSUITESTENSA);
• the product’s compliance with the General Safety and Performance
Requirements (GSPR) of Regulation (EU) 2017/745, verified through
the GSPR checklist (GSPR-SUITESTENSA);
• confirmation that the changes introduced to the device do not
constitute significant modifications to its design or intended use, in
accordance with the classification criteria and verification schemes
defined in MDCG 2020-3 and NBOG BPG 2014-3;
• the availability and content of the Product Release Note.
Based on the above, the commercial release of the product is formally
approved and authorized. Final release actions are identified and planned,
including the delivery of internal training activities to relevant company
personnel.

5.2.9.4

5.2.9.5

5.2.9.6

5.2.10.
5.2.10.1

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

Post-Launch Software Releases, Change Management

Table 9 - Post-Launch Software Releases, Change Management
According to the Product Development Procedure, changes to device software
after initial market release are processed following the same steps of the first
release of the device.

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

21/24

5.2.10.2
5.2.10.3

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

5.2.10.4

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

Table 9 - Post-Launch Software Releases, Change Management
A new software release is formally required to have all software development
processes completed, from Requirements and Specification through
Verification and Validation.
When applicable, Regression testing must be performed at the Software
System Test level.
All new system software releases are verified for their compatibility with legacy
product hardware configurations already on the market. Any compatibility
limitations are explained in the release notes and in the Field Service
information provided with a new software release.

5.2.11.

Externally-Sourced Software Management

Externally-Sourced Software can be of multiple types:
1. OTS (Off-The-Shelf) software:
OTS software may be divided in two main categories:
• a generally available software component, intended for general purpose computing, that
has not been developed for the purpose of being incorporated into a medical device;
• a software medical device, with its own clearance and/or certification, that is integrated
providing end-user clinical functionalities.
2. SOUP (Software Of Unknown Provenance): a software component for which adequate
documentation may be difficult to obtain, because it has not been developed under a
controlled software development life-cycle.
3. Sub-contracted Software: custom software that is externally developed by contract
software developers under the direction of the Company.

5.2.11.1
5.2.11.2

5.2.11.3

Table 10 - OTS Software
The use of OTS software is desired to reduce development costs and exploit
specific supplier expertise which is out of the boundary of the Company’s field
of interest.
Prior to its use in a device, OTS software modules are evaluated for their
performance and limitations and are evaluated for their suitability for use
integrated with the device.
In the case of OTS Software Medical Device, EBIT shall ensure that the source
code complies with functional and security requirements.
Where applicable, specific contract clauses may be defined so as to ensure the
test of the source code through Vulnerability Assessment/Penetration Test or
Source Code Review before release in production environment. These activities
shall be executed in compliance with the provisions of document IPR000021
(which forms part of the EBIT ISMS, implemented in compliance with ISO/IEC
27001:2022). The outcomes of periodic security assessments and regular static
code reviews enable ongoing updates to EBIT risk analysis documentation, in
accordance with the Risk Management Plan.
OTS software components are integrated in the device’s software design.
Because of their integration with the overall operating system, OTS software
modules are tested as part of the system software testing process.

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

22/24

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

5.2.11.4

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

Table 10 - OTS Software
Whenever a new release or version of the OTS is available, the changes
introduced in the OTS are analysed to assess any possible impact on the device’s
system performance, safety or efficacy.
In case of OTS Software Medical Device, PP defines whether or not it is required
to incorporate the latest revision of the OTS from the vendor, in order to benefit
of new functionalities and or bug fixing included in the new release.
The evaluation, verification and validation process of a new OTS major software
release requires the activities described in the following table. The activity
responsible is defined with regard to the type of OTS Software (Medical Device
or General Available Software).

Activity

Evaluation if integration of a new
release of OTS Software is needed.
Definition
of
new
product
requirement
related
with
the
integration of the new OTS release.
a. Verification of the requirement.
New OTS software version
requirements (OS, devices,
etc…) have to be strictly verified
with regards to the software
device OS requirements, in order
to maintain and/or update a
compatibility list.
b. New OTS software versions, that
should be natively embedded in
the devices are checked into the
source code control system as
the software is built.
c. The inclusion of a different
version of the OTS requires
integration test of the software
at the system level.
d. Due to the integration with the
overall operating system, OTS
software modules are tested as
part of the system software
testing process.
Validation of the integration of the
new OTS, when necessary in
particular in the case of Generally
LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

Responsible
OTS Medical
Device SW
PP

Responsible
OTS Generally
Available SW
R&D

PP

R&D

R&D

R&D

PP

PP

23/24

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN

rev. V

SUITESTENSA Software Development Life-cycle Model

29/09/2025

Le informazioni contenute nel presente documento sono proprietà di EBIT srl e sono riservate; Ne è vietata la riproduzione e la diffusione in qualunque modo eseguita. Tutti i diritti riservati.
The information in this document is confidential and proprietary to EBIT srl; no part of this document may be reproduced, copied distributed or in any way exploited. All rights reserved

Table 10 - OTS Software
Available sw, in particular whenever
the changes to OTS software
integration affect the user interface.

5.2.11.6
5.2.11.7

5.2.11.8

5.2.11.9
5.2.11.10

Table 11 - SOUP
SOUP software application is carefully controlled.
SOUP software is managed similarly to OTS software, with a thorough analysis
of its performance and limitations being performed in advance of its application
into a device’s software system.
Table 12 – Sub-contracted Software
When software is sub-contracted to an outside software development
subcontractor, the subcontractor is contractually required to follow EBIT
software development procedures or provide their own software development
procedures which are evaluated to be equivalent to those in place at EBIT and
which will deliver the same documentation set as if the module were internally
developed.
In the case of subcontracted software, EBIT shall ensure that the source code
complies with functional and security requirements.
Where applicable, specific contract clauses may be defined so as to ensure the
test of the source code through Vulnerability Assessment/Penetration Test or
Source Code Review before release in production environment. These
activities shall be executed in compliance with the provisions of document
IPR000021 (which forms part of the EBIT ISMS, implemented in compliance
with ISO/IEC 27001:2022). The outcomes of periodic security assessments
and regular static code reviews enable ongoing updates to EBIT risk analysis
documentation, in accordance with the Risk Management Plan.
Changes to subcontracted software are managed as changes to an internally
developed software.
Software suppliers of subcontracted software are selected, qualified and
monitored as defined in the EBIT QMS procedure QPR000150 – Procurement.

LC-SUITESTENSA-EN rev. V

24/24

